# Green ash RNASeq analysis scripts
The software contained here was used to perform analyses on green ash transcriptome data collected by the Staton lab. 
- degs.R
- hclust_dendro.R
- hm_bingo.R

## Version
02.22.2016


## degs.R
degs.R (differentially expressed genes) is an Rscript used to 
calculate and construct some of the figures/tables in the manuscript
"De novo assembly of the green ash transcriptome and 
identification of genes responding to abiotic and biotic stress"
Lane et. al. 2015

degs.R assumes a directory in home called "degs" exists
degs.R also assumes a sub-directory in home called counts-sorted
exists and contains HTSeq output from green ash libraries. See
counts-sorted.zip. 

degs.R will create two directories for outputs: output and images

- counts-sorted

### counts-sorted
This directory contains the counted read data from HTSeq across the green ash libraries. This data is needed for input into the degs.R script. 

## hclust_dendro.R
hclust_dendro.R is an Rscript used to use
rpkm normalized values and generate clustered output in
"De novo assembly of the green ash transcriptome and 
identification of genes responding to abiotic and biotic stress"
Lane et. al. 2015

hclust_dendro.R assumes a directory in home called "hclust_dendro" exists
hclust_dendro.R also assumes a sub-directory in home called rpkm
containing "all_final_cut55.tsv" a file of rpkm normalized values
accross 55 green ash libraries. This file can be produced using the code
in the rpkm directory

hclust_dendro.R will create a single output Tiff "hclust_dendro.tiff"

- rpkm

### rpkm
This directory contains the scripts for calculating RPKMs which are used as input for the hclust_dendro.R. A compressed version of the input file "all_final_cut55.tsv.gz" is also included.

## hm_bingo.R
hm_bingo.R (heatmap bingo) is an Rscript used to 
read in BiNGO GO enrichment results and generate a heatmap used in
"De novo assembly of the green ash transcriptome and 
identification of genes responding to abiotic and biotic stress"
Lane et. al. 2015

hm_bingo.R assumes a directory in home called "hm_bingo" exists
hm_bingo.R also assumes a sub-directory in home called bgo
exists and contains headless output from BiNGO. 

Headless output from BiNGO can be generated by saving output from BiNGO
and parsing out all lines that begin with "GO-ID". For example using grep:
> $ grep "^GO-ID" ColdOUTPUT.bgo > headless_ColdOUTPUT.bgo

hm_bingo.R will create a three output Tiff files "Figure5_all.tiff,"
"Figure5A_up.tiff," and "Figure5B_down.tiff"

- bgo
- Cold_down_old
- Cold_up_old
- goSlim_greenAsh.GAF

### bgo
This directory contains the GO Term enrichments from running Bingo. These serve as the inputs for hm_bingo.R.

### Cold_down_old
An old version of the Cold_down output from Bingo.

### Cold_up_old
An old version of the Cold_up output from Bingo.

### goSlim_greenAsh.GAF
This is another necessary input for running Bingo. 
